Wanna hear a cacophony
of music in this room?
Please don't mute, just keep going.
I think maybe that,
We can all jam together.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]
A different trick is if you wanna
make notes, really easy to do.
Just pick a bunch of numbers,
integers between negative 12 to 12, or so.
Western music has this thing
called 12 tone tonality.
So as long you pick a bunch
of numbers that are good,
you can do this little bit
of math where you take,
you index something from that array, and
then you raise it to the 2,
to your number divided by 12.
And you multiply that by a base frequency,
like 440.
And it's gonna be you're pushing keys
on the piano, including the black keys,
cuz there's 12 of those from
1 to the other [SOUND] so,
[MUSIC]
Here's a simple version of that.
Can I add some distortions to that?
[MUSIC]
[SOUND]
Just the same tricks over and over again.
The thing is, when you take these
waveforms, you can just add them together,
and it's your ears can pick out
the waveforms from each other.
So that's sort of why you can still
understand me when I'm talking over this.
Music, for example,
the same thing applies, but with addition.
And if you multiply waveforms,
then it mostly will just be quiet.
A few other things to know is
sine waves are relatively soft.
[MUSIC]
Square waves are really loud.
Triangle waves are somewhere in between.
[MUSIC]
Triangle waves have another cool thing
going for them though that you can do.
[MUSIC]
Let's see, get it.
Put that down a bit.
And then,
[MUSIC]
You can make ridiculous
sounds really quickly.
[MUSIC]
If your sounds are too obnoxious, you can
always multiply them by some other way,
and then they sound more subtle.
[MUSIC]
I don't know, there you go.
>> [APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC]
>> I spend a lot of time fiddling
with this kind of stuff, so.
[LAUGH] That's all it takes, I guess.
[MUSIC]
All right, cool.
If you got any questions,
I'll just be right here.
[LAUGH] Please do play with
all of those fun toys,
which are now a part of your job,
cuz it's the web platform.
>> [LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] Do you need me to sign any
letters or whatever?
I can do that.
>> [INAUDIBLE] This is part of my job.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [INAUDIBLE]